README.md, before:

# RUNDOOM

A Classic-DOOM launcher for the FISH shell.

## Usage

I'm going to get myself set up to play the following:

Heretic with:
* [International Heretic](https://jnechaevsky.github.io/inter-doom/)
* [Heretic Minor Sprite Fixing and Widescreen-Friendly Project](https://www.doomworld.com/forum/topic/64778-heretic-minor-sprite-fixing-and-widescreen-friendly-project-v10-release/)

DOOM2 with:
* [Woof](https://fabiangreffrath.github.io/woof/)
* [Going Down Turbo](https://doomwiki.org/wiki/Going_Down:_Turbo)
* [The high resolution Doom sound effects pack](https://www.perkristian.net/game_doom-sfx.shtml)
* [Doom 2 Minor Sprite Fixing Project](https://www.doomworld.com/forum/topic/62403-doom-2-minor-sprite-fixing-project-v20-release-updated-112822/)

Using a powerful text editor that auto-completes file paths and supports json schemas (and using the
provided rundoompresets_schema.json), I translate that to the following json configuration file:

    {
        "heretic": {
            "engine": "/home/dugan/Applications/inter-heretic-8.3-linux.appimage",
            "file": [
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/HRSPFX10/HRSPFX10.WAD",
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/HRSPFX10/HRWIDE10.WAD"
            ]
        },
        "gdturbo": {
            "engine": "/home/dugan/Applications/Woof-15.3.0-Linux.appimage",
            "iwad": "DOOM2",
            "file": [
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/pk_doom_sfx/pk_doom_sfx_20120224.wad",
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/sprfix20/D2SPFX20.WAD",
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/gdturbo/gdturbo.wad"
            ],
            "deh": [
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/sprfix20/D2SPFX20.WAD"
            ]
        }
    }

(Variables and tildes are not supported for the paths; sorry).

The command-line format is:

    rundoom [-p <preset>] -- <any extra arguments>

The -p (preset) option is integrated with FISH's completion system. This is the intended way to use rundoom.

You'll notice that the next time you use rundoom, FISH will autocomplete the command to the last preset
you used.

![FISH completion](screenshots/rundoom_completion.png)

Running *rundoom* without arguments gives you a picker. Looks cool, but really just an experiment that I threw in.

![Picker](screenshots/rundoom_picker.png)

## Setup

Copy completions/rundoom.fish to ~/.config/fish/completions.

Copy bin/rundoom to a directory to ~/.local/bin, which you should have in your PATH.

Set the RUNDOOMPRESETS to be the path to the json file you're using for the presets. If the file is
~/Documents/rundoom/rundoompresets.json, then you do:

    set -x RUNDOOMPRESETS ~/Documents/rundoom/rundoompresets.json

## Requirements

* [jq](https://jqlang.org/)
* [fzf](https://junegunn.github.io/fzf/)

## Misc Notes

I'm running Fedora, Steam from RPMFusion, and DOOM from Steam. I have the following conf file in ~/.config/environment.d:

    DOOMWADPATH="$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Ultimate Doom/base:$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Ultimate Doom/base/doom2:$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Heretic + Hexen/dos/base/hexen:$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Heretic + Hexen/dos/base/hexendk:$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Heretic + Hexen/dos/base/heretic:$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Ultimate Doom/base/tnt:$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Ultimate Doom/base/plutonia:$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Ultimate Doom/base/master/wads:$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Ultimate Doom/rerelease":$HOME/.local/share/Steam/steamapps/common/Heretic + Hexen

Soundfonts go in ~/.local/share/soundfont, as documented here:

https://github.com/fabiangreffrath/woof/wiki/Getting-Started#using-soundfonts-2

I recommend at least trying the following two:

    * [Reality](https://falcosoft.hu/softwares.html#midiplayer)
    * [Arachno](https://www.arachnosoft.com/main/soundfont.php)

Or give [Nuked](https://github.com/nukeykt/Nuked-SC55) a try.

Commit message:

Less complicated IWAD search setup

README.md, after:

# RUNDOOM

A Classic-DOOM launcher for the FISH shell.

## Usage

I'm going to get myself set up to play the following:

Heretic with:
* [International Heretic](https://jnechaevsky.github.io/inter-doom/)
* [Heretic Minor Sprite Fixing and Widescreen-Friendly Project](https://www.doomworld.com/forum/topic/64778-heretic-minor-sprite-fixing-and-widescreen-friendly-project-v10-release/)

DOOM2 with:
* [Woof](https://fabiangreffrath.github.io/woof/)
* [Going Down Turbo](https://doomwiki.org/wiki/Going_Down:_Turbo)
* [The high resolution Doom sound effects pack](https://www.perkristian.net/game_doom-sfx.shtml)
* [Doom 2 Minor Sprite Fixing Project](https://www.doomworld.com/forum/topic/62403-doom-2-minor-sprite-fixing-project-v20-release-updated-112822/)

Using a powerful text editor that auto-completes file paths and supports json schemas (and using the
provided rundoompresets_schema.json), I translate that to the following json configuration file:

    {
        "heretic": {
            "engine": "/home/dugan/Applications/inter-heretic-8.3-linux.appimage",
            "file": [
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/HRSPFX10/HRSPFX10.WAD",
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/HRSPFX10/HRWIDE10.WAD"
            ]
        },
        "gdturbo": {
            "engine": "/home/dugan/Applications/Woof-15.3.0-Linux.appimage",
            "iwad": "DOOM2",
            "file": [
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/pk_doom_sfx/pk_doom_sfx_20120224.wad",
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/sprfix20/D2SPFX20.WAD",
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/gdturbo/gdturbo.wad"
            ],
            "deh": [
                "/home/dugan/archives/pwads/sprfix20/D2SPFX20.WAD"
            ]
        }
    }

(Variables and tildes are not supported for the paths; sorry).

The command-line format is:

    rundoom [-p <preset>] -- <any extra arguments>

The -p (preset) option is integrated with FISH's completion system. This is the intended way to use rundoom.

You'll notice that the next time you use rundoom, FISH will autocomplete the command to the last preset
you used.

![FISH completion](screenshots/rundoom_completion.png)

Running *rundoom* without arguments gives you a picker. Looks cool, but really just an experiment that I threw in.

![Picker](screenshots/rundoom_picker.png)

## Setup

Copy completions/rundoom.fish to ~/.config/fish/completions.

Copy bin/rundoom to a directory to ~/.local/bin, which you should have in your PATH.

Set the RUNDOOMPRESETS to be the path to the json file you're using for the presets. If the file is
~/Documents/rundoom/rundoompresets.json, then you do:

    set -x RUNDOOMPRESETS ~/Documents/rundoom/rundoompresets.json

## Requirements

* [jq](https://jqlang.org/)
* [fzf](https://junegunn.github.io/fzf/)

## Misc Notes

International DOOM, Woof and UZDOOM will all search for IWADS in ~/.local/share/games/doom. As this is fairly standard, I recommend putting all your IWADs there and setting the DOOMWADDIR environment variable (for ports that don't look there by default) to that.

Woof will look for soundfonts ~/.local/share/soundfont, as documented here:

https://github.com/fabiangreffrath/woof/wiki/Getting-Started#using-soundfonts-2

My recommendation is to store your soundfonts there, and then set up your other source ports (by, for example, editing Internaational DOOM and UZDOOM's ini files) accordingly.

I recommend at least trying the following:

    * [Reality](https://falcosoft.hu/softwares.html#midiplayer)
    * [Arachno](https://www.arachnosoft.com/main/soundfont.php)
    * {GeneralUser GS}(https://schristiancollins.com/generaluser.php)

These are good retrogaming soundfonts in general, because they have GS support.

Or give [Nuked](https://github.com/nukeykt/Nuked-SC55) a try.
